How I made this blog and also sleep deprived ramblings

May 5th, 2020 - 4:36 pm

The time is 4:36 pm. I have not slept in 26 hours and I have another 8 to go. Some people are able to do very well with
little sleep. I am not one of those individuals. I have allowed my sleeping schedule to slip deeper and deeper into the
night until the point I was lucky to get to bed by 7am. No more shall that be the case. Thus I have been awake since 2pm
yesterday and up all night. The profound boredom has finally prompted me to write my first proper blog post. I
figured I would do it on the design choices of this website, as well as the direction I hope to take this site if I ever
feel ambitious.

Side note: Since the chances of like anyone reading this are hilariously low this blog will function primarily as a
journal to my future self so I can look back on this time and fondly cringe at it.

The motivation for this website stemmed from seeing that the domain dannenroberts.com was available for $12 and I
basically worked backwards from there manufacturing a reason to purchase it. Having never hosted a website myself I
turned to google and stumbled upon AWS Amplify, a service that allows AWS to connect to a remote repo and automatically
update itself every time a commit occurs. Setting it up was an absolute dream, and I realize I sound like a shill but it
was a stark reminder for why Amazon is a billion dollar company. Literally just connect it to Github, signup for a free
1 year subscription, push code, connect domain name, and boom fully functioning HTTPS website ready to go in literally
ten minutes.

Having worked that out suspiciously easily I turned to actually creating the website. I'm a strong believer in doing the
minimum amount of work required to get a job done well, as is many a good SWE. As such I decided to only have static
files with no backend. This seemed like an acceptable decision as the only one posting to the website is me and blog
posts will be minimal. This actually introduced some unfamiliar constraints as I was used to making larger flask
projects with full blown multi-threaded servers, dynamic templating, etc etc. My initial thought was to literally have
no javascript or python at all and to manually add the HTML every time I make a blog post. Of course I am not a
neanderthal so that was quickly deemed not viable. From there things went down hill quickly....

My next thought was to write every blog post as a JSON file and to have javascript request the JSON files and assemble
the HTML client side. This is obviously gross for a number of reasons, the two largest ones of course being having to
write in JSON, and the calls to the server for all the JSON files would create unnecessary overhead. I realize how dumb
this design was but if we're being honest the mental was already going down hill. Clearly this too was a bad solution.

In a slightly less horrifying attempt I decided to do away with the JSON requests and just decided to use the JSON files
generate a blog HTML file before every push. Of course my fragile and smooth brain hadn't quite realized that this would
then no longer require writing and parsing JSON so it took me a good hour to catch that I should drop all notion of
saving files or using JSON at all.

Blah blah blah, more boring stuff, (I am realizing now how profoundly boring this is so I'm going to move it along)

Finally after bumbling around for a bit I decided on the following solution: Blog posts where each component (title,
date, paragraphs) are separated by two newline characters. Thus I have a directory of very readable blogs as plain text
files. Additionally I have python script that will read each blog and convert it to a python dictionary (it can even
handle images using a special defined image keyword. Checkout the code on the github repo if you're curious). The
dictionaries are then used to produce a blog page with as many as ten of my most recent posts. I realized I basically
made a shitty version of templating and parsing. It's a fairly clean solution that requires only one command before
every push to create my updated blog page and removes all overhead from the end user.

I hope to eventually add in a backend and do something more interesting with this website but until then this is the
workflow I'm sticking with. I do plan on adding more keywords to make it easier for bolding, quotes, and
code snippets in blog posts, but that is a future me problem.

That just about wraps up the technical stuff. I honestly have no idea if this blog will stay more on the technical or
non technical side. Probably the latter, I think I have more to share on that side of things. Also I'm going to try to
add at the end of every blog a note to my future self for when I nostalgically check this website out years from now.

Note to self: Currently listening to the album Transatlanticism by Death Cab For Cutie a worrying amount. I graduated
college yesterday. There is a pandemic going on that is really just barely an inconvenience for me as I'm lucky enough to
not have to work and I mostly play video games and watch youtube videos. The graduation was not at all satisfying and
left me feeling slightly hollow, kinda like "That's it?". The presidential election between Joe Biden and Donald Trump
is going on currently, the campaigns are mostly focusing on Corona, it is a very weird and unprecedented election. I
currently believe Joe Biden has a solid edge in light of the virus decimating the economy and killing over 100k people
in the U.S.. No matter your politics, it's hard to argue this will not hurt Trump.

That's all for now folks. Stay tuned for hopefully better and less scattered content.